Go through this long list of JeVois setup and information before you do anything. If you don't, you won't be able to do anything with the JeVois. It can be found here: http://jevois.org/doc/index.html

It is best to work on the JeVois from a fresh operating systm, so follow the instruction that are shown bellow:
Install VirtualBox and follow the instructions listed in the link: http://jevois.org/doc/Virtualbox.html
Linux is the best operating system to use while using the JeVois, so make sure you install a Linux virtual machine. 

Follow all those directions, and once you get to the part that gives a link to JeVois packages an source codes, click there. 
Once there, you should find this think: http://jevois.usc.edu

Once you get to the section that prompts you to install the JeVois packages, make sure you go to the software and updates pannel in the virtual machine, which you can find by searching up in the activities in the top left of the desktop. Once there, make sure that the machine will allow anything to be downloaded. 

Click on it and follow the instructions to install the JeVois packages. These instructions should be found under the header, "Getting JeVois developer software - Details." Make sure you are following the correct instructions for the version of Ubuntu you are using(version 17.10, for example). 

In order to access the JeVois on a virtual machine, make sure you add it the the usable usb ports, by going in the virtual machine settings, going to the usb tab, selecting the radio button labeled 3, and click the plus icon, and select the JeVois.

If JeVois tutorials have not already been installed, install them from github here: https://github.com/jevois/jevois-tutorials (download them)

Install Guvcview. This is a video software that we found to be the greatest for using the JeVois. You can install it by entering sudo apt-get install guvcview into the terminal. Also enter guvcview -ao none -f YUYV -x 640x360 into the terminal. This will install Guvcview, and make it to where it doesn't look for an audio device upon startup. 

Long list of useable commands: http://jevois.org/doc/UserCli.html
Tutorial for JeVois set up: http://jevois.org/tutorials/UserTutorials.html (Many sublists of tutorials in this link)
Tutorial for JeVois programming: http://jevois.org/tutorials/ProgrammerTutorials.html (Many sublists of tutorials, current JeVois programming in 2018 was in the Python programming language)

params.cfg - list of parameters settings that should be applied each time a module is loaded. Only parameters of the module or its component algorithms can be set here. The parameters are set each time the module is loaded (e.g., the corresponding video resolution is selected by video capture software on the host computer).

script.cfg - this is a more general script that is run after the module is loaded and initialized. The script is in the same form as you would type commands interactively in the command-line interface.

Entering setpar effect (type effect here) into the serial monitor changes the paramater for video effects. 

FIXING ERRORS:
The JeVois seems to have many issues when it comes to working properly, so if you are following the tutorials exactly and the JeVois does not do what the tutorials say it should do, retrace your steps, and if it still doesn't work, reimage the JeVois.
I have found that if the JeVois has a fit when you enter a command, a common solution is unplugging it an plugging it back in. You then have to wait for the start up process of the JeVois to finish, which you can tell has finished when the light on the JeVois is solid orange.


